---
layout: page
title: Classification Trained AFs
permalink: /metaaf/kws-af
description: Meta-AF Echo Cancellation for Improved Keyword Spotting
date: 2023-09-12
---
# Overview
Adaptive filters (AFs) are vital for enhancing the performance of downstream tasks, such as speech recognition, sound event detection, and keyword spotting. However, traditional AF design prioritizes isolated signal-level objectives, often overlooking downstream task performance due to the labor-intensive manual tuning process. This can lead to suboptimal performance. Recent research has leveraged meta-learning to automatically learn AF update rules from data, alleviating the need for manual tuning when using simple signal-level objectives. This paper improves the Meta-AF framework by expanding it to support end-to-end training for arbitrary downstream tasks. We focus on classification tasks, where we introduce a novel training methodology that harnesses self-supervision and classifier feedback. We evaluate our approach on the combined task of acoustic echo cancellation and keyword spotting. Our findings demonstrate consistent performance improvements with both pre-trained and joint-trained keyword spotting models across synthetic and real playback. Notably, these improvements come without requiring additional tuning, increased inference-time complexity, or reliance on oracle signal-level training data.

---

We have released code and will release model checkpoints using the `metaaf` python package developed for this work. For demos of the code, setup instructions, and more, check out the new branch in our [GitHub repo](https://github.com/adobe-research/MetaAF/tree/ct-meta-af/zoo/ct_af).
